#summary The Programmer's Reference Guide
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

=PHP-Reader Documentation=
By [http://code.google.com/u/wphilipw/ wphilipw], [http://code.google.com/u/svollbehr/ svollbehr]

==Table of Contents==
  * *Introduction*
  * [ASF] Class
  * [ID3v1] Class
  * [ID3v2] Class

  * _[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/issues/list Issues]_

==Introduction==
PHP-Reader is a high quality and open source library providing a very simple and intuitive toolset to read files and their information headers.
 
This documentation contains information that a developer needs to comprehend and use each library component.

==Installation==
PHP-Reader is built with object-oriented PHP 5 and thus requires PHP version 5 or later.

Once an appropriate PHP environment is available, your next step is to get a copy of the library. You may obtain the copy by downloading the [http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list latest release] available in both `.zip` and `.tar.bz2` formats.

Once you have the copy, you must make the library available to your application. Though there are [http://www.php.net/manual/en/configuration.changes.php several ways to achieve this], your PHP [http://www.php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php#ini.include-path include_path] needs to contain the path to the library.

Since all the components are rather loosely coupled, various components may be selected for independent use as needed. Each class' documentation will give you the minimum setting.

==License==
PHP-Reader is licensed to you under the [License New BSD License].