#summary The Programmer's Reference Guide: ID3v2 Class
#labels Phase-Implementation

=PHP-Reader Documentation: ID3v2 Class=
By [http://code.google.com/u/wphilipw/ wphilipw], [http://code.google.com/u/svollbehr/ svollbehr]

==Introduction==
The `ID3v2` class provides a fully standards compliant implementation of the ID3v2.3.0 and ID3v2.4.0 standards as defined by [http://www.id3.org/ ID3.org]. The ID3 tag can be used with various files including MPEG Layer III, or MP3 files. The class is capable of both reading and writing tag information.

==Table of Contents==
  * [Help Introduction]
  * [ASF] Class
  * [ID3v1] Class
  * *`ID3v2` Class*
  * [Magic] Class

  * _[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/issues/list Issues]_

==Class Information==
  * _Documentation location:_ <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/docs/
  * _Source location:_ <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3v2.php
  * _Requirements:_
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/Reader.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/Reader/Exception.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/Transform.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/Object.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/Frame.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/Header.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/!ExtendedHeader.php
    * <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/Exception.php
  * _Optional:_
    * Any class file under <[http://code.google.com/p/php-reader/downloads/list package]>/src/ID3/Frame/ folder

==Examples==

===Example #1: How to read ID3v2 information===
The simplest way to use the `ID3v2` class is to have it get a specific frame by its identifier.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");
$frame = $id3->getFramesByIdentifier("TIT2"); // for song title; or TALB for album title; ..
$title = $frame[0]->getText();

$frame = $id3->getFramesByIdentifier("APIC"); // for attached picture
$image = $frame[0]->getImageType();
}}}

As already so familiar from the [ID3v1] class, the class also supports shorthands for retrieving and assigning frames and their fields. The above code could also be written as shown below.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");

$title = $id3->tit2->text;                    // contains the first song title; or talb->text for album title; ...
$image = $id3->apic->imageType;               // contains the first attached picture type
}}}

===Example #2: Other ways to read ID3v2 information===
As the most common reason to read ID3 tags is to get the song information, it is often sufficient to get out just the textual information of an ID3v2 tag. This can easily be done with just a few lines of code by using tag selector as shown below.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");
$id3info = array()
foreach ($id3->getFramesByIdentifier("T*") as $frame)
  $id3info[$frame->identifier] = $frame->text;

print_r($id3info); // will print all textual information found from the tag
}}}

However, more often than not, there is not just one single piece of information that you would like to output, but rather, you would like to output as much information as possible. You can loop through all the frames and create custom output for individual frame types as shown in the example below.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");
foreach ($id3->frames as $frames) {
  if ($frames[0] instanceof ID3_Frame_AbstractText)
    echo $frames[0]->identifier . ": " . $frames[0]->text . "\n";
  if ($frames[0] instanceof ID3_Frame_AbstractLink)
    echo $frames[0]->identifier . ": " . $frames[0]->link . "\n";
  if ($frames[0] instanceof ID3_Frame_APIC)
    echo $frames[0]->identifier . ": " . $frames[0]->imageType . "\n";

  // etc..
}
}}}

===Example #3: How to write ID3v2 information===
Writing an ID3v2 tag is no harder than writing an [ID3v1] tag. One may simply create an instance of the class, assign needed values and commit the changes.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2();

$tit2 = new ID3_Frame_TIT2();
$tit2->setText("My song title");
$id3->addFrame($tit2);

$id3->write("file.mp3");
}}}

It is also possible to read current tag content, alter it and then rewrite it back to the media file.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");

$id3->getFramesByIdentifier("TIT2")[0]->setText
  ($id3->getFramesByIdentifier("TIT2")[0]->getText() . " by me!"); // append something to the title

$talb = new ID3_Frame_TALB();
$talb = "My album";
$id3->addFrame($talb);

$id3->write();
}}}

Similarly to when you read the tag information, you can also use the class shorthands to assign the information. The above code can also be written as follows.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");
$id3->tit2->text = "{$id3->tit2->text} by me!"; // append something to the title
$id3->talb->text = "My album";
$id3->write();
}}}

===Example #4: Case study: How to display album cover image===
ID3v2 can also contain images you might say. Well, there is a way to read them.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");
header("Content-Type: " . $id3->apic->mimeType);
echo $id3->apic->data;
}}}

No harder than that!

===Example #5: Version juggling===
By default, the `ID3v2` class recognizes the version of the standard used to write the tag. When you write a new tag, the class defaults to the newest version 4.0. You can change this behaviour by giving an options array to the constructor as shown below.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2(array("version" => 3.0));
$id3->tyer->text = "2000";
$id3->write();   // writes ID3v2.3.0 compliant tag
}}}

It is also possible to change the version information on a read tag. However, you must be carefull not to leave any deprecated or unsupported frames to the tag.

{{{
<?php
require_once("ID3v2.php");

$id3 = new ID3v2("file.mp3");          // read  ID3v2.4.0 by default
$id3->getHeader()->setVersion(3.0);
$id3->write();                         // write ID3v2.3.0
}}}

See the class documentation found in the source package for the documentation for all the available tag frames and their fields.